# Non-text contrast

## Any visual boundary that indicates an active user component's hit area (the region where a pointer can activate the control) MUST have sufficient contrast of at least 3 to 1 with the adjacent background.

This success criterion extends some of the contrast requirements for text to user interface components and non-text parts of graphics (see rule for graphics below).

This is meant to ensure that users with low vision can perceive parts of the screen that are not necessarily text, but still important for accessing and understanding content. This includes elements such as buttons, form elements, links, and user controls generated by scripts. 

Without sufficient contrast on buttons and other controls, users may not be able to distinguish them from the background.

However, in the case where the appearance of the component is determined by the user agent and not modified by the author, this contrast rule does not apply.

Note: This success criterion does not require a component to have a visual boundary indicating the hit area, but if the visual indicator of the boundary is the only way to identify the component, it MUST have sufficient contrast.

## The visual state of an active user interface component MUST have sufficient contrast of at least 3 to 1 with the adjacent background.

Visual states of user components include in focus, selected, unselected, and others.

User interface components that are inactive (not available for user interaction at the moment) do not have to meet these contrast requirements, so they may be "grayed-out" while they are inactive.

Again, as in the preceding rule, if the color contrast of the state is the default color set by the user agent and not modified by the author, it is exempt.

## Parts of graphics (required to understand the content) MUST have a contrast ratio of at least 3 to 1 against adjacent color(s).

Graphics that convey information must also meet this non-text minimum contrast ratio. This includes icons that convey information, lines in line graphs, and slices in pie charts. For example, users who can’t distinguish lines in a line graph or between slices in a pie chart can’t interpret the information.

There are exceptions to this rule in cases where changing the color changes the meaning. For example, changing the colors in flags, photography, and heatmaps would change the meaning, so they are exempt.